Common methods tools (#113)
PennLINC/PennLINC.github.io: docs/CommonMethods/partial_least_squares.md

title: Partial Least Squares (PLS)
parent: Common Methods
---

# Partial Least Squares (PLS)

> Partial Least Squares (PLS) is a multivariate statistical technique that can be used to examine associations between two multivariate datasets. PLS identifies weighted linear combinations of original variables in the two datasets that maximally covary with each other. These weighted linear combinations of variables are termed latent variables and are mutually othogonal, such that patterns captured by one latent varibale will be independent from patterns captured by another latent varibale. If you're not familiar with PLS and want to learn more about it, [McIntosh & Lobaugh, 2004, *NeuroImage*](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuroimage.2004.07.020) and [McIntosh & Misic, 2013, *Annu. Rev. Psychol.*](https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev-psych-113011-143804) are good resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Partial Least Squares (PLS) is a multivariate statistical technique that can be used to examine associations between two multivariate datasets. PLS identifies weighted linear combinations of original variables in the two datasets that maximally covary with each other. These weighted linear combinations of variables are termed latent variables and are mutually orthogonal, such that patterns captured by one latent variable will be independent from patterns captured by another latent variable. If you're not familiar with PLS and want to learn more about it, [McIntosh & Lobaugh, 2004, *NeuroImage*](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuroimage.2004.07.020) and [McIntosh & Misic, 2013, *Annu. Rev. Psychol.*](https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev-psych-113011-143804) are good resources.
```
